# Migrating from v2 to v3

The V3 release of `vue3-lottie` uses a new build flow with Vite and Esbuild. This new build flow allows for a smaller bundle size and faster build times. The new build flow also allows for [better Typescript support](https://github.com/megasanjay/vue3-lottie/issues/338). This also removes the need for the `dist/style.css` file. The css is now imported automatically by the library.

Since making this change will break applications that are using the `dist/style.css` file, I have decided to release v3 as a new version of this package. This will allow users to upgrade to v3 at their own pace. v2 will not be receiving any new features or bug fixes.

All the examples and documentation have been updated to use v3. If you are using v2, I recommend upgrading to v3 as soon as possible. It should be a very simple upgrade.

## Upgrading to v3

To upgrade to v3, you will need to uninstall the v2 package and install the v3 package.

::code-group
Compare this snippet from docs\content\1.introduction\4.v3.md:

```bash [yarn]
yarn remove vue3-lottie
yarn add vue3-lottie@latest
```

```bash [npm]
npm uninstall vue3-lottie
npm install vue3-lottie@latest --save
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm remove vue3-lottie
pnpm add vue3-lottie@latest
```

::

## Removing the `dist/style.css` file

The `dist/style.css` file is no longer needed. You can remove it from your project. The css is now imported automatically by the library.

### Vue 3

If you are using Vue 3, you can remove the `dist/style.css` import from your `main.js` or `main.ts` file.

### Nuxt 3

If you are using Nuxt 3, you can remove the `dist/style.css` import from your `app.vue` file.

::alert{type="success"}
✨ Well done! You have successfully upgraded to v3.
::
